=head1 NAME
 
Parse::Eyapp::TokenGen - Support for Using Parse::Eyapp as a Data Generator 
 
=head1 METHODS

=head2 set_tokengens

=head2 set_weights

=head2 set_weights_and_generators

=head2 weight

=head2 generator

=head2 deltaweight

=head2 pushdeltaweight

=head2 popweight

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * 
L<Parse::Eyapp>, 
L<Parse::Eyapp::eyapplanguageref>, 
L<Parse::Eyapp::debugingtut>,
L<Parse::Eyapp::defaultactionsintro>,
L<Parse::Eyapp::translationschemestut>,
L<Parse::Eyapp::Driver>,
L<Parse::Eyapp::Node>,
L<Parse::Eyapp::YATW>,
L<Parse::Eyapp::Treeregexp>,
L<Parse::Eyapp::Scope>,
L<Parse::Eyapp::Base>,


=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/languageintro.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/debuggingtut.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/eyapplanguageref.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/Treeregexp.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/Node.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/YATW.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/Eyapp.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/Base.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/translationschemestut.pdf> 

=item * The pdf file in L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/MatchingTrees.pdf> 

=item * The tutorial I<Parsing Strings and Trees with> C<Parse::Eyapp>
(An Introduction to Compiler Construction in seven pages) in
L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/eyapsimple/> 

=item *
perldoc L<eyapp>, 

=item *
perldoc L<treereg>,

=item *
perldoc L<vgg>,

=item * The Syntax Highlight file for vim at L<http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2453>
and L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~vim/>

=item * I<Analisis Lexico y Sintactico>, (Notes for a course in compiler 
construction) by  Casiano Rodriguez-Leon. 
Available at  L<http://nereida.deioc.ull.es/~pl/perlexamples/>
Is the more complete and reliable source for Parse::Eyapp. However is in Spanish.

=item *
L<Parse::Yapp>,

=item *
Man pages of yacc(1),

=item *
Man pages of bison(1),

=item *
L<Language::AttributeGrammar>

=item *
L<Parse::RecDescent>.

=item *
L<HOP::Parser>

=item *
L<HOP::Lexer>

=item * ocamlyacc tutorial at 
L<http://plus.kaist.ac.kr/~shoh/ocaml/ocamllex-ocamlyacc/ocamlyacc-tutorial/ocamlyacc-tutorial.html>

=back

=head1 REFERENCES

=over

=item *
The classic Dragon's book I<Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools> 
by Alfred V. Aho, Ravi Sethi and
Jeffrey D. Ullman (Addison-Wesley 1986)

=item *
I<CS2121: The Implementation and Power of Programming Languages>
(See L<http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~pjj>, L<http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~pjj/complang/g2lr.html> 
and L<http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~pjj/cs2121/ho/ho.html>) by 
Pete Jinks

=back



=head1 AUTHOR
 
Casiano Rodriguez-Leon (casiano@ull.es)

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work has been supported by CEE (FEDER) and the Spanish Ministry of
I<Educacion y Ciencia> through I<Plan Nacional I+D+I> number TIN2005-08818-C04-04
(ULL::OPLINK project L<http://www.oplink.ull.es/>). 
Support from Gobierno de Canarias was through GC02210601
(I<Grupos Consolidados>).
The University of La Laguna has also supported my work in many ways
and for many years.

A large percentage of  code is verbatim taken from L<Parse::Yapp> 1.05.
The author of L<Parse::Yapp> is Francois Desarmenien.
 
I wish to thank Francois Desarmenien for his L<Parse::Yapp> module, 
to my students at La Laguna and to the Perl Community. Special thanks to 
my family and Larry Wall.

=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT
 
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Casiano Rodriguez-Leon (casiano@ull.es). All rights reserved.

Parse::Yapp copyright is of Francois Desarmenien, all rights reserved. 1998-2001
 
These modules are free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.
 
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 




